## Statement of Purpose

This README intends to describe the technical process used to host a Markdown-formatted resume on a statically generated website.

It will do so by connecting the technical writing methodologies and principles described in the course readings. Specifically:
- Andrew Etter's *Modern Technical Writing*, and 
- Chapter 8 of William S. Pfeiffer's *Technical Communication: A Practical Approach*.

The intended audience of this README is Marvin McLaren, or anyone who is interested in technical writing and meets the technical prerequisites listed in the next section.

## Prerequisites

To follow the instructions detailed in the next section, you will need the following **prerequisites**:

- A text editor such as [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to edit documents, preferrably compatible with Markdown (.md) files
- A basic grasp of the syntax used for writing documents using the lightweight markup language Markdown.
- A basic understanding on how to use a command line interface to perform operations such as changing directories and executing commands.
- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) installed on your system.   
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/install/) installed on your system.
- A GitHub account for hosting a Git repository online.

## Instructions

This section will provide comprehensive instructions on how to format a resume using the Markdown lightweight markup language, host the resume on a website generated statically generated by Hugo, and finally publish the statically generated website on GitHub Pages.

### Creating a static website using Hugo

This section will provide instructions on setting up and creating a statically generated website using Hugo. 

Andrew Etter details the importance of building a website as a means of distributing any technical writing or documentation. This is because websites never become outdated in the way that traditional documents like PDFs do. Websites can easily be edited with new information after they have already been published, and static website generators make the process of creating a website quick and seamless. 

1. Install Hugo on your device. You can find specific download methods for your operating system on their [website](https://gohugo.io/installation/).
   - **Note**: You will also need to have Git installed on your device if it isn't already.
  
2. Verify that Hugo has been installed correctly using the following command: `hugo version`

3. Create a new Hugo project using the following command: `hugo new project project_name`
   - Replace 'project_name' with what you would like to name your project

4. Change into the directory of the newly created project using the following command in your terminal with your project's name: `cd project_name`

5. Initalize a Git repository within the project repo using the following command: `git init`

6. (Optional) Install a theme that can be used to personalize your static website by cloning a submodule
   - e.g. `git submodule add https://github.com/hanwenguo/hugo-theme-nostyleplease.git` will install the **nostyleplease** theme used for this static website
   - Add the following line to the hugo.toml file in the root directory of the project `theme = "nostyleplease"`


### Formatting a resume using Markdown

Now that you've generated a static website project using Hugo, the next step is to create a piece of content that you will provide to your website. This content, specifically known as a *page* will store the contents of your resume. The most popular format for writing content is Markdown, which is a type of lightweight markup language.

Andrew Etter elaborates on why lightweight markup is the superior choice for formatting content on a website in his book. Notably, Etter states that lightweight markup languages provide an element of human-readability that raw languages such as XML, or HTML don't. Lightweight markup languages allow the writer to create a human readable document in a language such as Markdown, and that will then be convereted into the raw XML/HTML by the static website generator you use. Additionally, Etter describes the importance of styling when writing technical documentation, and Markdown provides ways to include text styling to emphasize certain text using inline styles, link and image support, etc.

1. Create a page to store the contents of your resume using the following command: `hugo new content content/posts/resume.md`

2. Format the headings of your resume using the hashtag (#) symbols
   - The number of #'s changes the size, decreasing the size of the text as you add more

3. Use single dashes (-) to create bulleted lists
   - You can add sub bullets by indenting the `-` bullet on the next line

4. Use inline styles to highlight standout words, names, or phrases:
   - **Bold** standout words, names, or phrases by wrapping the text with ``**`` symbols
   - *Italicise* text by wrapping the text with `*` symbols instead

5. Include links to external websites by wrapping a url inside parentheses ()
   - **Note**: Alt-text can be added by wrapping text in square [] brackets before the parentheses.

6. Separate sections of your resume using horizontal line breaks `---`, or `***`


### Deploying your static website using GitHub Pages

Now that you have generated a static website using Hugo and have hosted your resume as a page in the website, the last step is to deploy your website on the internet so that it can be viewed by others.

Andrew Etter details why hosting a static website 

1. Log into your GitHub account
2. Create a remote repository for your project
3. 


## Further Resources

There are several external sources available on the internet which can provide more information on the tools and software used in this process:

1. [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
   - A comprehensive overview of Markdown's features and syntax. Also details features available in extended Markdown formats.
2. [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)
   - The homepage of the static website framework used to generate this website. Provides extensive tutorials and documentation on usage, themes, and community features.
3. [Git](https://git-scm.com/docs)
   - The reference guide for Git. Provides guides and information on common Git workflows such as cloning repositories, commiting files, switching branches, and so on. 
4. [GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/what-is-github-pages#types-of-github-pages-sites)
   - An introduction to using GitHub Pages to host websites online. Includes information on how the service works, configuration details, and creating custom workflows.

  
## FAQ

**Q:** Why is Markdown better than writing raw HTML?
- **A:** Markdown is preferred over raw HTML due to its improved readibility and ease of use as a markup language. Markdown's simple and minimial syntax ensures that anyone can pick up the language and write technical documents without needing to worry about the involved syntax that raw HTML requires. The simplicity of the syntax also means that Markdown is easier to read compared raw HTML.

**Q:** Where can I find and install themes that are compatible for use with Hugo static websites if I want to use a different theme for my website?
  - **A:** If you would like to personalize your own static website using a different theme, there is a dedicated showcase for publicly available themes on Hugo's [website](https://themes.gohugo.io/) that are available for download that can be used in your Hugo project.
        
## Credits

- The third-party theme used for this static website is [nostyleplease](https://github.com/hanwenguo/hugo-theme-nostyleplease), provided under the MIT License.
- Peer reviewed by:
  - Jade Lee